you can't hide it anymore there's a
clear and obvious problem when the
average person can't afford the average
home the average Lifestyle you came here
for the truth you see in today's video
we're going to go through how this all
works I'm going to show you what's been
happening over the last while I'm going
to give you a breakdown of what's
happening in the United States we'll
talk about Canada and of course the rest
of the world you've probably been
dealing with it yourself you're hearing
about it at the water cooler at work you
know what's going on here but people
don't have the insight as to why it's
happening we like to point our fingers
in One Direction or the other but of
course there's
only um a very small group of people
that control what happens to you in your
life and we have to understand that and
until we do we're just going to be
spinning our Wheels think about it like
a hamster
on this wheel turning for all eternity
until they get off and
realize this thing is just for our own
entertainment meanwhile there's so much
else going on outside of this you got to
understand first revealed the income a
family needs to live comfortably in
every state in some states families need
an income of
$300,000 to Simply live comfortably and
you might might say to yourself what
well they must be living above their
means not really in some places uh it is
quite excessive all right and I'll show
you the map here just look at it
okay you could see this for
yourself they compare um different areas
but I think it's important
to just be honest and say is this
and I I should say why is this really go
like happening and you'll you'll see
Connecticut 279 New York 278 California
is up there as
well and of course this is a very big
concern for the average person knowing
inflation doesn't go down and so if I
live in these areas or maybe not the top
10 but maybe it's somewhere else it's
still a fact that it seemingly never
ever goes down there are periods okay we
had the housing crisis that brought
housing prices down made them more
affordable but what else happened during
that time is that a lot of people lost
their income so it wasn't like everybody
just swooped in bought stuff for cheap
not really not those without the means
to just put more cash into it at the
same time we were being told that this
was the end of the world the whole world
was dealing with the crisis at that
moment it wasn't just the us too it
started to spread and so there was a
very uh big problem there so it's not as
if you know what okay asset price is
going to collapse when they hit 50% down
that's the point okay let's buy in
everything's all good no people lose
their jobs their asset suddenly
depreciate they like uh you know what
maybe I'll just hang on I'll wait it out
or I'll wait until the right moment and
the right moment doesn't come Walmart
surges to alltime high as earnings beat
on high income Shoppers and as well as
the e-commerce gains I'm a little bit
surprised about the e-commerce games for
any of those people who sell on Walmart
uh it's surp that's a surprise to me let
me tell you okay um but if you want to
understand Walmart by the way I know
they get um bad reputation and the
company has certainly changed since it's
more like the founding era uh compared
to now but you should read the book or
listen to the audio book made in America
Sam Walton um it will give you a
different perspective on on the whole
company it certainly did for me so this
is just interesting to see what's
happening with Walmart and I want to
tell tell you a little bit more Walmart
sales surge as wealthier shoppers flock
to the retailer interesting company
prioritizes Staples over big
discretionary purchases and so of course
they've got the grocery they've got all
all things now I mean you can pretty
much get anything at of Walmart and I'm
not sure the last time I was even in
Walmart but anyway this is where we are
looking at this you could see e-commerce
was a big driver jumping 22% during the
same period as well as upper income
households that the retail said drove
the bulk of its gains now what's
happening if you take that and and
understand what's going on here
eCommerce that means less Shoppers in
the stores
potentially at the same time some of
that is due to Amazon sellers
diversifying off of Amazon onto Walmart
so the more sellers you get the more
availability of products and then it
actually becomes a better Marketplace
people start shopping on there
um and overall lower fees so but you
can't have necessarily lower prices
because uh Amazon controls the pricing
um online which is kind of crazy but uh
with with this with the you know those
wealthier individuals take that with a
grain of Sal because you got to
understand here what's happening is
people are getting squeezed and so
people are saying hm where can I save
money well instead of shopping over
there I'm going to shop over here and
they're going to w Walmart so what does
that say about the actual real true
economy well here's a very good example
average consumer carry
$6,200 in credit card debt as more
borrowers are falling behind on their
payments so that's two things
$6,000 on carrying that balance 20% plus
interest rates all right as well as
delinquency is
rising that is a problem on top of that
you got the student debt on top of that
you've got any other expenses that these
people might have this is the type of
thing that you can't just sweep under
the rug you can't do that now people try
to do that hey let's pay One credit card
off with the other credit card let's do
these you know balance transfers and
everything you know it it catches up to
you I understand some people you're in
Dire Straits do what you got to do
there's no question do what you got to
do but I'm just showing you this from
the economy and you know that point of
view it is very clear that the consumer
is hurting and it's not just the
consumer's uh you know making very
little it's going up the line because if
you saw Connecticut and New York and
California all of these places it's also
super expensive so unless you're earning
way above the average in your own area
you're going to be in trouble and that's
an unfortunate thing but hang on okay
I'm I'm telling you this for a reason
okay so let's look at some more
stats the charts you love the charts I
know that's what you came here for you
could see this is the world food price
index going up just recently after
coming down down down now it has uh
risen a little bit and we'll see if that
Trend continues it is near a record high
all right uh if you exclude what
happened in
2022 and looking at this it is never
good thing to see it because we could
have Global instability we could have a
lot of problems uh at the same time we
break that down into Thailand white rice
which is you know obviously feeding a
lot of people rice in general and uh
this is now surging to a point which we
haven't seen for a very long time so
hopefully you know we want to see slow
and steady Rises if anything okay but
when we get surges that
instability and Chaos so let's keep um
our eyes peeled on that one like I look
at Lululemon I look at under arour and
Nike and all these like big Brands what
happened during 2020 they ordered way
too much uh that stuff just sat around
they had to liquidate it they dealt with
some problems now Under Armor the
company has to
restructure and this is all part of that
okay there isn't enough demand like
people don't have as much disposable
income as they did before so we're
seeing those little signs those pockets
are are certainly there this is a highly
politicized article but I just want to
show you inflation hits 20% under Biden
pushing small businesses to the brink
now uh we're seeing it all over the
place this is a just to be clear a
cumulative
20% you go through this and understand
that certainly prices have been ring
they've been rising for a long time a
long time just zoom out just keep
zooming out okay that's that's key but
it's not just in the United States why
don't we go north of the Border changes
in per person GDP income 1985 to
2023 well let me just explain this is
there's quite a bit in here right now
depending on what happens if per capita
GDP doesn't recover in 2024 this period
perod maybe the longest and largest
decline in per person
GDP over the last four
decades ridiculous so what does that say
in plain English basically the way we're
headed right now in Canada the situation
hasn't been this bad in four
decades that's some serious business
that's some serious business meanwhile
there seems to be an infinite amount of
money being thrown here being thrown
there and the average person is
struggling something doesn't add up so
you see where I'm going with this okay
let's let's be clear let's let's be
honest about that inflation is high
inflation is probably like the prices
are probably going higher who is
responsible for this the central banks
the government for pumping all that cash
in what can you do about it Number One
Financial education how do you get
financially educated the easiest way is
compus is totally free look it's over my
shoulder each and every
day that's Compass totally free the
money gps.com
Compass totally free you'll get that
Financial education that's your base
okay then I have playlists all free on
my YouTube channel how to make money all
kinds of stuff everything from growing
micro greens to you know online methods
like all kinds of stuff okay so don't
don't just say you know I don't know how
to do this there are many ways many ways
I talk about that in um my my uh live
sessions uh as well like more in-depth
stuff but um this is for you to to have
your base knowledge okay you have your
base knowledge now what can you do you
got to look at your personal career
where you are right now is this a fure
future let's say is it good for the next
5 years is it good for the next 10 years
be honest with yourself if you think yes
it is can you still move up the ladder
can you get enough raises that you're
going to be doing okay assuming
inflation just keeps heading higher if
not what kind of skills would you like
to learn there's a website I talked
about before class Central class Central
I I've covered it many times I'm not
affiliated with them I just bring it to
you because I want to bring you what I
can any information that I have I bring
that to you there's no gatekeeping here
none of that class Central is just a
place where all these universities they
post free courses on like machine
learning and you know automation
robotics all these different things for
free okay um of course they want you to
get into it so then you'll go to them
and you'll you'll be interested and what
else they have uh but take the free
education wherever you can get it so
Compass super easy 20 minutes that
you'll go through that you'll have your
foundation anybody that's never heard of
anything could go in there in 20 minutes
they have a great base of knowledge okay
that's the money gps.com and what I ask
of you after all this hit that thumbs up
button that's it it supports this
Channel and it notifies the algorithm
out there to let other people know about
these videos I appreciate you being here
today and I'll see you tomorrow take
care